* Selection 2 
About Theodore Dreiser
Theodore Dreiser (1871-1945) was the ninth of the ten surviving children of a family obsessed with poverty and mobility. He had his early education in Catholic schools and the public schools of Warsaw, Indiana, where his family finally settled in 1884. At age sixteen, Dreiser left home to seek his fortune in Chicago, where he found a steady job in a warehouse. He became an avid reader in his spare time. Inspired, he attended Indiana University for a year but returned in 1890 to Chicago to do various menial jobs. In 1892, Dreiser started his journalistic career, which allowed him to travel from city to city for nearly ten years. Such experiences were to be the raw material for his novels and shape his stark realism, pessimistic determinism, and his rejection of capitalism and admiration for socialism. In 1899, Dreiser began writing Sister Carrie, a novel with the major themes and social attitudes that characterize Dreiser's subsequent writings. With the publication of Jennie Gerhardt (1911), Dreiser began a burst of creative energy in novel writing. Between 1912 and 1947, Dreiser's "trilogy of desire", The Financier (1912), The Titan
(1914), and The Stoic (1947) were published, the last one being printed posthumously. Dreiser's finest novel was An American Tragedy (1925). It tells how an upstart businessman degenerates ito a murderer and ende up in shame. The novel combines all the central concerns of Dreiser's art. It is a sociatist eriticism of the American capitalist economie system. Dreiser also published several short story collections, essay collections and the autobiographical works, A Book About Move (1932) and /xm (193D) and a collection of poetry, Moods, Cadenced and Declaimed
(1936), Dreiser's novels can be generally viewed as works of naturalism or realism with social criticism. He employs the literary technique of "faithful (naturalistic) representation of reality" to expose and criticize the social problems of the capitalistic society: He looks at social process as a Kind of scientifie evolution, and with his observation of social reality, his systematic study of documentary history, and the influence of rational philosophy, he tries in his novels to lay bare the social ailments and portrays the conflict between the individual and society in a capitalistic societ: They express the naturalist viow by showing the deterministic struggle for survival. And they treat sex as a major force in human lives, thus shattering narrow-minded American moral tradition.
About Sister Carrie
Carrie Meeber, a poor country girl, young, protty, and inexperienced, comes to Chicago with a dream of fine things in life. She meets Charles Drouet, a flashy travelling salesman, who later lives with Carrie and promises to marry her. In the meantime, Drouet introduces Carrie to his friend Hurstwood, who is twice Carrie's age. Hurstwood is a saloon manager with a comfortable family but desires more. He chases Carrie for her love and deceives her into leaving Drouet and coming to live with him. Faced with social and financial ruin, Hurstwood steals his employer's money and runs away with Carrie to Montreal. They marry illegally and go to New York to find jobs there, Soon, Carrie becomes a well-known actress with many friends and admirers, as well as money and all the comforts and luxuries she has dreamed of. Hurstwood, by contrast, finds no decent job and lives in poverty. In the ending scene of the novel, Hurstwood rents a room, turns on the gas, and commits suicide,
About This Selection-
Presented below are the beginning paragraphs of Chapter 30 of Sister Carrie. Dreiser here writes about Hurstwood, the saloon manager, who becomes the victim of his own desire and Carrie's pursuit of wealth and renown. The author gives his comments on the capitalist growth of New York and points out that in big cities like New York, "the great create an atmosphere which reacts badly upon the small". And in such a noticeable atmosphere of greatness, Hurstood matters very little. The worst thing is that now he has committed theft and escaped to New York. He has to start all over again for a place and comfort in this
"kingdom of greatness".